As the 134th class of Gilea drew to a close, the students reflected on their experience.
In the entire course, we studied Hebrew scriptures and the Greek scriptures in a chronological way.
The proclaiming spoke the history of Jehovah's Witnesses.
How to teach effectively, simply but deeply.
All of our instructors have completely different ways of teaching.
Some just really grab at the heart.
I never realized how many treasures were hidden in even verses I knew very well.
What surprised me is how much I hadn't been getting from the Bible before.
I have personally much more appreciation for the quality of the publications.
The truth is that I feel that I'm just beginning now.
Gilea helped me to learn how to study the Bible and from now on I will study the Bible.
I know I'll be sad when it's over, but I'm looking forward to getting finished
so we can get back to our assignment and apply all that we're learning.
At the graduation, the opening chairman, a member of the governing body,
called everyone's attention to the school's growing legacy.
Gilea has proved to be a powerful tool to accomplish this purpose of Jehovah.
Now that 70 years have passed, what has been accomplished?
Today we're preaching in 239 lands.
And the effort to reach out to people of all languages has never been greater.
Afterward, a series of speakers emphasized different themes that would be useful to the graduates being sent all around the globe.
The first speaker, a member of the United States Branch Committee, pointed to the great opportunity ahead of them.
Now you have received months and months of training, Bible study, at the School of Gilea.
That's a wonderful privilege, but along with that privilege comes a great responsibility.
You have a commission to take what you have learned and use it to help and benefit others in the territories where you serve.
Next, a member of the governing body reminded everyone that accomplishment would only come with both great effort and reliance on Jehovah.
Continue to work hard. Jehovah provides, but we have to do our part, don't we?
I mean, think about Matthew 626. It says Jehovah feeds the birds of heaven.
But think about, does he put the food in the nest for the birds? They have to do their part, don't they?
Jehovah bless his effort. Fully trust that Jehovah will provide for you.
The next speakers were school instructors. The first called attention to the challenge ahead.
Think about the forces at work against us. Think about Satan and his demons. That's an external force.
The inherited imperfection, an internal force, really. This is something we can do something about.
We can work now to put on a new personality.
Also the need for the Christian quality of humility.
Jehovah won't force you, but he has taught you by means of his word the wisdom of not trying to write your own script in life or decide to do what simply looks best in your eyes.
You need to act as a good Christian because good Christians make good traveling overseers, good Bethelites and good missionaries.
Let Jehovah's qualities and the mind of Christ and the fruitage of the Spirit not a title define you.
The students reenacted some of the different experiences they had in the ministry during the school term.
Student interviews reminded all of the Biblical foundation of the Gilead experience.
My study of the Bible at Gilead has been like looking at the night sky through a powerful telescope.
Each verse of the Bible used to look like a single star, but now it appears to be a huge galaxy.
I've come to realize that every verse of the Bible is like a treasure.
The concluding talk by a member of the governing body gave recognition to the 70-year history of the school and its humble beginnings.
To say that money was scarce is an understatement.
At the time, the organization had only enough money to keep the school going for five years.
And so we might say that Gilead's school is tangible proof that the faithful steward had faith.
77 Gilead graduates are now serving in Bethel in the United States.
Then all were reminded of the progress that has been made.
You will be sleeping at night in a modern Bethel or in a beautiful missionary home because someone slept in a cattle shed 90 years ago.
The students received their diplomas and the commission to carry on the same preaching work of those who went before them.